
===== PAGE 1 =====
Fault Diagnosis of Gearbox Based on Improved Transformer
Keming Guan
China Academy of Machinery Science
& Technology, China Productivity
Center for Machinery, Beijing 100048,
China
Bing Du∗
China Academy of Machinery Science
& Technology, Yanqihu Fundamental
Manufacturing Technology Research
Institute (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Beijing,
100085, China
zuosc_fighting@163.com
Zhe Wu
China Academy of Machinery Science
& Technology, China Productivity
Center for Machinery, Beijing, 100048,
China
Jinfeng Li
China Academy of Machinery Science
& Technology, China Productivity
Center for Machinery, Beijing, 100048,
China
Yan Zhang
China Academy of Machinery Science
& Technology, China Productivity
Center for Machinery, Beijing, 100048,
China
ABSTRACT
Health services for the gearbox are essential to ensure the safety of
industrial production. However, gearbox fault diagnosis remains
a challenge due to complex responses caused by multiple gears.
In recent years, there has been an increasing number of scholars
who have embraced deep learning techniques for gearbox fault
diagnosis. Compared with traditional deep networks, transformers
exhibit outstanding pattern recognition capabilities, but their ability
to process local information is lacking. Therefore, we propose an
improved Transformer network that applies multi-scale perception
layers and linear embedding to enhance the ability to capture local
feature information, analyze fault features on multiple time scales,
and retain the position information of the original signal. The vali-
dation was conducted on the Southeast University (SEU) gearbox
dataset. The model’s classification accuracy can reach 99.4% when
detecting five different fault signals with a signal-to-noise ratio of
10. Experimental results have shown that the method has excel-
lent diagnostic and anti-interference capabilities, which would be
applied in engineering practice.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies → Machine learning; Machine
learning approaches; Neural networks.
KEYWORDS
Gearbox, Fault Diagnosis, Deep Learning, Self-Attention, Trans-
former
∗Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China
© 2023 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0826-8/23/11. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3603273.3636498
ACM Reference Format:
Keming Guan, Bing Du, Zhe Wu, Jinfeng Li, and Yan Zhang. 2023. Fault
Diagnosis of Gearbox Based on Improved Transformer. In2023 International
Conference on Advances in Artificial Intelligence and Applications (AAIA
2023), November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
7 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3603273.3636498
1 INTRODUCTION
Gearboxes are essential components that play a critical role in
modern industrial systems. As the demand for precision, reliability,
and durability in industrial manufacturing increases, gearboxes are
widely used in various fields, including aerospace, machine tools,
cars, and petrochemicals. The failure of gears during production
can result in the destruction of the entire system, affect the accuracy
of equipment, and increase the non-necessary stoppage time [1].
Therefore, fault diagnosis of gearboxes is important for ensuring
the safe and stable functioning of mechanical systems, and it is
crucial in preventing industrial safety accidents.
The use of vibration signals for gearbox fault diagnosis has
gained widespread attention, and earlier methods relied heavily
on manual feature extraction from the original signal [ 2]. How-
ever, with the development of typical signal processing techniques
such as Fast Fourier transform, Wavelet Transform and Empiri-
cal Mode Decomposition, the process has become more refined.
Although these methods can achieve some extent of fault recog-
nition, expert knowledge still plays a dominant role. Furthermore,
the detection process requires advanced computational skills and
experience, making it challenging for unskilled field personnel. The
emergence of artificial intelligence has led to the development of
machine learning methods, which have significantly advanced fault
diagnosis models [3]. Algorithms such as support vector machines,
decision trees, and random forests have replaced the traditional
manual feature extraction process, resulting in encouraging diag-
nostic results. However, traditional machine learning methods still
require complex feature extraction and selection processes, that
significantly impact the accuracy of diagnosis.
With the development of artificial intelligence technology, deep
learning has begun to be applied in the field of gearbox fault diagno-
sis [4]. Applying deep learning fault diagnosis methods can reduce
manual feature extraction and achieve end-to-end problem-solving,
312
===== PAGE 2 =====
AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China Keming Guan et al.
reducing reliance on expert experience [5]. For example, Janssens
et al. [6] were the first to use convolutional neural networks (CNN)
for diagnosing faults in gearboxes, including bearings and gears.
Their study demonstrated that deep learning algorithms can ef-
fectively extract signal features and classify them. Gong Wenfeng
et al. [7] conducted experiments to analyze the influence of deep
learning skills and model hyperparameters in CNN on the fault
diagnosis results of rolling bearings. They proved that this method
has good operability and versatility. Talebi et al. [ 8] proposed a
dynamic modeling approach based on RNN for wind turbine gener-
ator fault diagnosis, which improves the accuracy of fault diagnosis
by comparing the output results of the model and the actual sys-
tem. The experiment shows that this scheme can quickly obtain
fault diagnosis results and have excellent diagnostic effectiveness.
Liu et al. [9] presented a method for fault diagnosis using an RNN
autoencoder, which showed improved robustness in noisy environ-
ments. This method was later improved upon with the use of CNN
and RNN, leading to significant performance gains. Additionally,
a short and long-term memory (LSTM) network was proposed for
processing one-dimensional time series data while maintaining
long-term dependence. However, these technologies have certain
limitations, as CNN relies on convolutions to extract features and is
influenced by kernel size, which can only extract local information.
RNN treats the input signal as an ensemble, limiting the parallel pro-
cessing of training samples and causing problems such as gradient
disappearance.
To address this issue, Vaswani et al. proposed the Transformer
[10] model. Unlike traditional neural network structures, the Trans-
former model primarily relies on attention mechanisms to weigh
and average each input sequence, establishing relationships be-
tween different sequences. It is more flexible when processing
different-length sequences. Initially, Transformer is proposed to be
mainly applied in the field of natural language processing (NLP),
the model has since been widely adopted in the computer vision
field. Specifically, the Vision Transformer (VIT) model, proposed by
scholars, enabled networks to focus on different regions of an image
and ultimately integrate information from the entire image. How-
ever, the Transformer model itself still has certain limitations, due
to the inherent inductive bias, its ability to process local information
is lacking.
An improved Transformer gearbox fault diagnosis method is pro-
posed in this article by adding a Multi-Scale Perception layer before
the Transformer layer, enriching fault information with convolu-
tional kernels of different scales, and adding a linear mapping layer
to improve network recognition accuracy. Finally, the effectiveness
of the model was verified through experiments.
2 RELATED THEORIES
The basic unit of Transformer is its encoder. By using multiple
encoders to stack and extract features from the raw data. This ap-
proach enables the encoder to capture the internal dependencies
between sequences, thus overcoming the distance effect inherent in
input sequences. Furthermore, the encoder avoids circular process-
ing by enabling more parallelized computations on the samples, sig-
nificantly improving the computational efficiency. The Transformer
Figure 1: The basic structure of self-attention mechanism in
Transformer.
model with attention mechanism has powerful parallel comput-
ing and model expression capabilities, which can effectively learn
feature information and recognize patterns from samples.
The Transformer model’s significant improvement is due to the
introduction of the Self-attention mechanism. Figure 1 shows the
basic structure of this mechanism. Through self-attention, the vari-
ous information in the sequence data can be effectively associated.
In particular, the self-attention mechanism performs matrix multi-
plications on the input vectors respectively and updates the weight
matrix to obtain the correlation degree between the vectors. For
vectors a1 and a2, the weight matrix is multiplied to obtain the Q
matrix and K matrix, and the matrix a is obtained by dot product of
Q and K matrix, which represents the correlation degree between
two vectors. Divide a by the scale factor𝑘𝑑, the attention matrix
is then processed as a normal distribution, so as to stabilize the
gradient during training. Additionally, an optional mask is added,
and the resulting matrix is multiplied by the weight matrix V to
obtain the final output b1, as shown in Formula 1.
Attention(𝑄,𝐾,𝑉 ) = sofmax
 
𝑄𝐾𝑇
√︁
𝑑𝑘
!
𝑉 (1)
The dimensions of Q and K are𝑘𝑑, and the dimensions of V are𝑣𝑑.
After calculation, each feature vector in the output sequence can
obtain information about all elements in the input sequence, and
pay attention to important details through the assigned weights.
The purpose of adding a mask in the self-attention mechanism is
to conceal certain unimportant values to prevent them from affect-
ing the final output. For example, when padding zeros to align the
sequence of samples, the positions filled with zeros do not contain
important information. The specific operation of implementing the
mask is to add a large negative number, and the weight coefficient
calculated after Softmax is close to 0.
313
===== PAGE 3 =====
Fault Diagnosis of Gearbox Based on Improved Transformer AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China
Figure 2: The basic structure of Multi-head attention block.
Unlike the basic attention mechanism that directly maps Q, K,
and V to high-dimensional space, the Transformer model uses the
Multi-head self-attention (MSA) to map Q, K, and V to different
subspaces of high-dimensional space. MSA consists of multiple
parallel self-attention layers, and the basic structure of MSA is
shown in figure 2. Perform different h-times linear projections on
Q, K, and V, and then calculate the self-attention function in parallel
for each projection version. The output values with dimensions𝑣𝑑
are concatenated and reprojected to obtain the final value. The
processing process can be represented as follows:
𝑀𝑢𝑙𝑡𝑖𝐻𝑒𝑎𝑑 (𝑄,𝐾,𝑉 ) =𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑐𝑎𝑡(ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖,...,ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑 ℎ)𝑊𝑂
ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖 =𝐴𝑡𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛

𝑄𝑊𝑄
𝑖 ,𝐾𝑊 𝐾
𝑖 ,𝑉𝑊 𝑉
𝑖
 (2)
In which𝑊𝑄
𝑖 ∈ 𝑅𝑑model×𝑑𝑘 、𝑊𝐾
𝑖 ∈ 𝑅𝑑model×𝑑𝑘 、𝑊𝑉
𝑖 ∈ 𝑅𝑑model×𝑑𝑘
and𝑊𝑂
𝑖 ∈𝑅𝑑model×𝑑𝑘 can be learned in backpropagation. In general,
the size of each head in MSA is 𝑑𝑘 = 𝑑𝑣 = 𝑑model/ℎ. Essentially,
MSA is a combination of multiple self-attention mechanisms that
discover relationships between sequences from different perspec-
tives. This enables the model to enhance the expressive ability of
each attention layer without increasing the total number of model
parameters and extends the Transformer model’s ability to focus
on different positions.
Transformer structure is effective in acquiring global informa-
tion and improving the expressive power of algorithms. However,
applying Transformer solely to extract features of gearbox leads
to the loss of the ability to capture local features and positional in-
formation, which prompts us to develop a better model to improve
Transformer.
3 PROPOSED METHOD
In response to the shortcomings of Transformer, an improved deep
learning model is proposed for gearbox fault diagnosis. The struc-
ture diagram is shown in Figure 3, where the input signal is first
passed through a multi-scale perception layer, which utilizes three
different-sized convolutional kernels to enhance the ability to cap-
ture local feature information. After passing through the multi-scale
perception layer, the signal enters the linear embedding for linear
mapping, and a position information matrix is added to the linear
embedding layer to solve the problem of Transformer losing posi-
tion features. The final representation is obtained by sending the
generated sequence signal to the Transformer encoder, which is
then used to classify and diagnose faults.
The parameters settings for improved Transformer are shown
in table 1. Here are the details of this experimental method:
3.1 Multi-scale Perception Layer
The multi-scale perception layer is designed with various convo-
lutional kernels of different scales, which effectively improves the
network’s feature extraction capability. Let the input signal be rep-
resented by𝑋 ∈ 𝑅𝑊×1×1, where W is the length of each sample.
The multi-scale perception layer executes several convolution op-
erations on the raw signal using various kernel size (101, 201, and
301, which are used in this study). The output of each convolutional
kernel is considered as a channel output, and the features from each
branch are added together to obtain the multi-scale features, which
can be expressed as:
𝑋′ =[𝜎(𝑓𝑛1×1;𝐶(𝑋));𝜎(𝑓𝑛2×1;𝐶(𝑋));𝜎(𝑓𝑛3×1;𝐶(𝑋))]∈ 𝑅𝑊×1×3𝐶
(3)
Where𝑓𝑛𝑖×1;𝐶(𝑋) represents the size of the convolutional kernel
in the convolutional process as𝑛𝑖× 1, and the filter number is C.
𝜎() indicates that ReLU activation function is used.
3.2 Linear Embedding
Divide multi-scale features into dimensions 𝑃× 1× 3𝐶 to form
m signal sequences, where𝑚 = 𝑊/𝑃, and perform linear map-
ping through a linear embedding layer. A self-learning matrix𝐸∈
𝑅3𝑃𝐶×𝐷 is used to flatten the existing feature signals into dimen-
sion D. To improve the subsequent classification work, the matrix
is labeled with 𝑋𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑠 , and the self-learning label is added to the
flattened matrix for better subsequent classification work.
Since the position information of the sequence signal needs to be
captured in the attention mechanism, the signal processed by the
linear embedding layer still needs to retain the spatial information
in the original signal. Add the position information matrix𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑠∈
𝑅(𝑚+1)×𝐷 to the signal sequence𝑥 to obtain the final result𝑧0 of
the linear embedding layer. The generated signal sequence with
markers can be expressed as:
𝑧0 =[𝑥𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑠 ;𝑥1𝐸;... ;𝑥𝑚𝐸]+ 𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑠 (4)
The added position information is also used as parameters in the
backpropagation process for training, which effectively improves
the stability of the model. Subsequently, the signal enters the Trans-
former encoder and passes the results of the head classifier to the
classifier module to complete the final classification.
3.3 Classifier
The head classifier is comprised of a normalization layer and a
fully connected layer that utilizes softmax regression to generate
probability classification for each health state of the gearbox. This
classification can be represented as:
𝑦 =𝐹𝐶(LN(𝑥)) (5)
314
===== PAGE 4 =====
AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China Keming Guan et al.
Figure 3: Improved Transformer structure diagram.
Table 1: Parameters of Improved Transformer
Number Type Parameters Output
1 Input signal - 1*1024
2 MSP layer Kernel size Stride Channel 12*1024
101/201/301 1 4
3 Linear
Embedding
Patch size Input_dim Output_dim 16*64*1
64*1 768*16 64
4 Transformer
Encoder
Depth Head Mlp_dim 16*64*1
6 16 128
5 Classifier Splicing dimensions 5
64*1
Table 2: Labeling rules for gearbox data
Health status description
Category Label Fault type Working conditions
1 S1 Normal 20Hz-0V 、30Hz-2V
2 S2 Chipped 20Hz-0V 、30Hz-2V
3 S3 Miss 20Hz-0V 、30Hz-2V
4 S4 Root 20Hz-0V 、30Hz-2V
5 S5 Surface 20Hz-0V 、30Hz-2V
4 EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
4.1 Dataset Description
The SEU gearbox dataset is provided by Southeast University [11]
for the purpose of gearbox fault diagnosis. The dataset was collected
using the Drivetrain Dynamics Simulator (DDS). Experimental de-
vice is shown in figure 4, which consists of brake, planet gearboxes,
parallel gearboxes, and driving motors. In addition, two three-axis
accelerometers (x, y, z) were installed on the parallel gearbox and
planet gearbox to collect vibration signals. The gearbox faults in-
cluded Chipped, Miss, Crack in the root of gear feet, and wear in
the surface of gear.
Two different working conditions are investigated with the ro-
tating speed system load set to be either 20 HZ-0V or 30 HZ-2V.
The dataset contains four fault labels and one normal label, making
a total of five status data. Table 2 lists the fault data labeling rules
at different speeds and loads.
315
===== PAGE 5 =====
Fault Diagnosis of Gearbox Based on Improved Transformer AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China
Figure 4: Experimental system for gearbox dataset.
4.2 Experiment Result and Analysis
To evaluate the fault diagnosis ability of a model on the SEU dataset,
80% of the dataset was used for training and the remaining 20%
for testing. The k-fold cross-validation method was used to assist
in model assessment, with k set to five to reduce random error.
After approximately 50 epochs, the accuracy reached almost 99.5%.
This indicates that the improved Transformer has good feature
extraction ability and diagnostic accuracy.
In order to simulate the actual working conditions, noise is added
to the signal to increase the difficulty of classification. Gaussian
white noise based on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is added. The
energy relationship between signal and noise is shown in Formula
(6).𝑃𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛𝑎𝑙 and𝑃𝑛𝑜𝑖𝑠𝑒 represent the energy of the original signal
and noise respectively. The SNR determines the amount of noise
added, with SNR equal to zero indicating that the signal and noise
have equal energy.
𝑆𝑁𝑅𝑑𝐵 = 10log10
𝑃𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛𝑎𝑙
𝑃𝑛𝑜𝑖𝑠𝑒

(6)
Figure 5 displays a comparison of the diagnostic capabilities of the
proposed model, as well as the basic models CNN and Transformer,
under conditions of noise. The model exhibits a significant improve-
ment compared to the baseline, with higher diagnostic accuracy
than the original CNN and Transformer models across various noise
levels. Notably, the model can achieve an impressive diagnostic ac-
curacy of 95% when the SNR is greater than 4, demonstrating its
robustness to noise. At an SNR of 10, the model’s final accuracy
reaches 99.4%, indicating the effectiveness and excellence of the
proposed model for fault diagnosis of gearboxes.
We utilize the T-SNE algorithm to visualize the training process
in two dimensions by clustering the outputs of each layer to visual-
ize the learning process of the model. Figure 6 shows the detailed
process of network training, where different colors represent differ-
ent categories. It can be observed that as the network progresses,
similar features continue to gather and eventually form distinct
Figure 5: Diagnostic result of experimental model and base-
line under different noise levels.
cluster structures. The T-SNE algorithm thus demonstrates the pow-
erful feature learning ability of the improved model in detecting
fault patterns.
Figure 7 displays the confusion matrix for each algorithm in
the absence of noise. For CNN, the overall accuracy is ordinary,
with some misclassifications in each class. The Transformer model
exhibits low discrimination between miss teeth and wear occur-
ring in the surface of gear., with all false positives classified as
surface cracks. In contrast, the improved Transformer model ex-
hibits the lowest error rate, indicating that the proposed model has
good classification ability and has great application value in fault
diagnosis.
316
===== PAGE 6 =====
AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China Keming Guan et al.
Figure 6: Display of t-SNE results for each layer of the experimental: (a) MCF, (b) Linear embed, (c) Transformer, (d) Classifier.
Figure 7: Confusion matrix of proposed method and baseline: (a) CNN, (b) Transformer, (c) Improved Transformer.
5 CONCLUSION
This article presents an enhanced Transformer model for intelli-
gent fault diagnosis of gearboxes. The input signal passed through
a multi-scale perception layer, linear embedding and Transformer
encoder to finally get the classification result. The SEU gearbox
dataset was utilized for testing, and the results of the experiments
demonstrate that the improved Transformer model is capable of
317
===== PAGE 7 =====
Fault Diagnosis of Gearbox Based on Improved Transformer AAIA 2023, November 18–20, 2023, Wuhan, China
effectively capturing local feature information through the integra-
tion of multi-scale perception layers and linear embedding layers.
The proposed model has the ability to analyze fault features at
various time scales while retaining the position information of the
original signal. During the experiment, the model outperformed
other basic models in terms of diagnostic capabilities. The model’s
classification accuracy can reach 99.4% when detecting five differ-
ent fault signals with a signal-to-noise ratio of 10. Even with a
signal-to-noise ratio of 2, the model can still maintain a diagnostic
accuracy of 95%. These results demonstrate the model’s exceptional
anti-interference ability, suggesting that the proposed method could
be effective in real-world engineering fault diagnosis tasks.
In the future, we plan to use more advanced models to improve
the proposed method. For example, using the recent RetNet, which
has faster speed and accuracy than Transformer. We will also collect
more data for different gearbox faults to evaluate the performance
of the proposed method.
REFERENCES
[1] Liu R, Yang B, Zio E,et al. 2018 Artificial intelligence for fault diagnosis of rotating
machinery: A review Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing 108: 33-47.
[2] Li J N, Luo W G and Chen W G 2022 A review of rolling bearing fault diagnosis
algorithms for vibration signals Journal of Xi’an University of Technology 42(02):
105-122.
[3] Xiao Q H 2021 Overview of mechanical fault diagnosis methods based on machine
learning theory Modern Manufacturing Engineering 490 (07): 148-161.
[4] Lei Y G, Jia F, Zhou X,et al. 2015 Big data health monitoring method for mechani-
cal equipment based on deep learning theory Journal of Mechanical Engineering
51(21): 49-56.
[5] Lei Y, Yang B, Jiang X, Jia F, Li N and Nandi A K 2020 Applications of machine
learning to machine fault diagnosis: A re-view and roadmap Mech. Syst. Signal
Process 138 106587.
[6] Janssens O, Slavkovikj V, Vervisch B,et al. 2016 Convolutional neural network
based fault detection for rotating machinery Journal of Sound and Vibration 377:
331-345.
[7] Gong We F, Chen H, Zhang Z H,et al. 2020 Research on intelligent fault diagnosis
of rolling bearings based on improved convolutional neural network Journal of
Vibration Engineering 33(2): 400-413.
[8] Talebi N, Sadrnia M A and Darabi A 2014 Robust fault detection of wind energy
conversion systems based on dynamic neural network Comput Intell Neurosci
580972.
[9] Liu H, Zhou J Z, Zheng Y, Jiang W and Zhang Y C 2018 Fault diagnosis of rolling
bearings with recurrent neural network-based autoencoders ISA Transactions
77: 167-178.
[10] Vaswani A, Shazeer N, Parmar N, et al. 2017 Attention is all you need Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 30
[11] Shao S, McAleer S, Yan R, et al. 2018 Highly accurate machine fault diagnosis
using deep transfer learning IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics 15(4):
2446-2455.
318