
===== PAGE 0 =====
Decoupled Feature-Temporal CNN: Explaining
Deep Learning-Based Machine Health Monitoring
Chaoyi Zhu, Zhenghua Chen*, Rui Zhao, Jinjiang Wang, and Ruqiang Yan
Abstract—Machine learning, especially deep learning, has been
extensively applied and studied in the area of machine health
monitoring. For machine health monitoring systems (MHMS),
the major efforts have been put in designing and deploying more
and more complex machine learning models. Those black-box
models are non-transparent towards their working mechanism.
However, this research trend brings huge potential risk in real
life. Since machine health monitoring itself belongs to high stake
decision applications, the outputs of the autonomous monitoring
systems should be trustworthy and reliable, which refers to obtain
explainability. Then, it comes to the following key question: Why
the deployed MHMS predicts what they predict. In this paper,
we shed some lights on this meaningful research direction:
explainable machine health monitoring systems (EMHMS). In
EMHMS, the machine doctor could act like a real doctor who can
not only make diagnosis but also describe the patient’s symptoms.
First, we propose a speciﬁc convolutional neural network (CNN)
structure, named as DecouplEd Feature-Temporal CNN (DEFT-
CNN), to balance precision-explainability trade-off. Speciﬁcally,
feature and temporal information have been encoded in different
stages of our model. The spatial attention module is added to
boost the performance of the model. Then, to explain the decision
of the model, we adopt the gradient-based methods to generate
features and temporal saliency maps highlighting which kind of
features and time steps are key for the model’s predictions. At
last, we conduct the experimental studies on two real datasets to
verify the effectiveness of our proposed framework.
Index Terms—Machine health monitoring, deep learning, con-
volutional neural network, attention mechanism, explainable
machine learning
I. INTRODUCTION
4In the ﬁeld of machine health monitoring, deep learning
systems built upon industrial big data have been pervasive
across various applications [1]–[4]. For example, Georg et
al. adopted deep neural networks for condition monitoring
in wind turbine [5]. Xiao et al. combined recurrence quan-
tiﬁcation analysis and long short-term memory (LSTM) for
This work is supported by the Agency for Science, Technology and
Research (A*STAR) under its AME Programmatic Funds (Grant No.
A20H6b0151) and Career Development Award (Grant No. C210112046).
Chaoyi Zhu is with School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic
Engineering,
Beihang
University,
Beijing,
China
100191
(e-mail:
z00419@buaa.edu.cn).
Zhenghua Chen is with the Institute for Infocomm Research, Agency for
Science, Technology and Research (A∗STAR), Sinagpore 138632 (e-mail:
chen0832@e.ntu.edu.sg).
Rui Zhao is with Quantitative Research, Harveston Asset Management,
Singapore 069542 (e-mail: rui91seu@gmail.com)
Jinjiang Wang is with School of Mechanical and Transportation Engi-
neering, China University of Petroleum, Beijing, China 102249 (e-mail:
jwang@cup.edu.cn).
Ruqiang Yan is with School of Mechanical Engineering, Xi’an Jiaotong
University, Xi’an, China 710049 (e-mail: yanruqiang@xjtu.edu.cn).
* indicates the corresponding author.
fault diagnosis of induction motors [6]. To classify online
tool wear during dry machining, Terrazas et al. utilized
convolutional neural network (CNN) based real-time cutting
force measurements [7]. In addition to diagnosis, Chen et
al. proposed a novel attention-based deep learning model for
machine remaining useful life (RUL) prediction [8]. Li et al.
[9] proposed a CNN with time-frequency domain features for
rolling bearing’s RUL prediction. All these previous studies
validate the effectiveness of deep learning systems in the ap-
plication of machine health monitoring. Although the reported
performance metrics such as training and testing accuracies in
diagnosis tasks are very high and convincing, the deployment
of these powerful deep learning algorithms in real industrial
environments have been lagging compared to other appli-
cations such as recommendation in E-commerce platforms
and machine translations. It is because that machine health
monitoring is one of high-stake decision scenarios where any
potential mistakes may lead to catastrophic outcomes. Since
these complex models cannot provide any explanations for
users to understand models’ predictions (e.g., why the model
predicts an inner race fault for a gearbox), users cannot rely on
and trust these machine health monitoring systems. In contrast
to these deep learning based MHMS, traditional machine
health monitoring and fault diagnosis techniques can provide
intuitive explanations and justify the models’ predictions [10],
[11]. For example, signal processing techniques can be adopted
to extract some metrics and the abnormal working condition
may be inferred based on the value range of pre-deﬁned
working circumferences. However, these previous approaches
have limited precision and scalability due to the requirement
of intensive expert efforts.
In this paper, we propose a novel approach named
DecouplEd Feature-Temporal CNN (DEFT-CNN) to solve the
above trade-off problem between precision and explainability
in the application of machine health monitoring. For each data
sample, local feature extraction is conducted ﬁrstly to obtain
a sequence of feature vectors which contain two directions:
features and temporal ones, as shown in Figure 1. The details
will be presented in the following sections. In computer vision,
the conventional CNN has shown powerful capability to learn
meaningful representations from images by capturing spatial
relationships of pixels across rows and columns of an image.
In our proposed DEFT-CNN structure, there are two kinds of
convolution layers: one is to focus on feature direction while
the other one is to focus on time axis, which is also called 1D
convolution layers. The decoupled domain-temporal modelling
design is able to provide separate explanation focusing on
features and temporal information. And the spatial attention

===== PAGE 1 =====
module recently studied extensively in the ﬁeld of computer
vision is added in our network [12]. This module can not only
boost the classiﬁcation accuracy but also compute attention
values of features and temporal dimensions indicating their
importance. In our framework, one of the gradient-based
methods named Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping
(Grad-CAM) is adopted to explain the model decisions [13].
In our proposed CNN structure with Grad-CAM, features
and temporal saliency maps can be visualized and pointed
out which features and time segments are discriminative over
model predictions. What is more, users are able to gain insights
into the inner information ﬂow in the deep learning model
and ﬁnd directions for model optimization, bias removal and
model debugging. At last, the trust of the users could be built
by providing explanations of the model decisions, which is
vital for the application of deep learning systems in the ﬁeld
of machine health monitoring. The contributions of our work
could be summarized as the following aspects:
• Introduce a gradient-based deep learning explanation
method, i.e., Grad-CAM, to understand the contributions
from features and temporal directions in machine health
monitoring tasks.
• Design the speciﬁc network structure of CNN, i.e., DEFT-
CNN, so that the attributions from domain features and
time dynamics could be analyzed and understood sepa-
rately.
• Spatial attention module is incorporated to boost the
model performance in terms of the diagnosis accuracy
and model explainability.
• The proposed framework achieves a good balance be-
tween precision and explainability and has been veriﬁed
by using two real datasets.
In a previous paper [14], the authors proposed DEFT-
CNN, which has several problems such as relatively low
accuracy and only testing on a single dataset. To solve these
problems, the main improvements of this work are summarized
as follows: 1) We introduce a spatial attention module into
DEFT-CNN, which can focus on important features and time
steps to improve accuracy and explainability. With the spatial
attention module, accuracy improves by more than 1% on two
different datasets. 2) Our proposed framework is validated
on two more challenging real datasets for rolling element
bearing and gearbox diagnosis, which can better demonstrate
performance of our model. 3) We conduct an additional feature
selection experiment. In this experiment, we compared the
testing accuracy using the features selected by importance
score with the accuracy using the randomly selected features
and the features selected by mutual information, which proves
the superiority of the ﬁrst one. This also manifests the effec-
tiveness of the computed feature importance scores by using
the proposed DEFT-CNN.
The remainder of the paper is organised as follows: Sec-
tion 2 provides an overview of machine learning explanation
approaches and some previous works in explainable machine
health monitoring systems. Section 3 presents the details about
the proposed framework including the CNN structure with
the spatial attention module and the adopted gradient-based
model explanation technique: Grad-CAM. Section 4 illustrates
a real application study which is based on a real bearing fault
diagnosis dataset: Paderborn University dataset and a gearbox
fault diagnosis dataset from Southeast University. In the last
section, the summary and future works are provided.
II. RELATED WORKS
In this section, a brief review of attention mechanism, deep
learning explanation techniques and the relevant applications
on machine health monitoring systems is presented.
A. Attention Mechanism
In the human visual system, attention plays an impor-
tant role in capturing information from images. Attention
mechanism allows humans to recognize things from pictures
by just focusing on salient parts. This process not only
focuses on a particular area, but also interprets objects in
that area. Therefore, attention mechanism has been used in
neural networks in recent years to improve the classiﬁcation
accuracy and explainability of networks. Wang et al. proposed
a Residual Attention Network which uses residual blocks with
attention module [15]. The bottom-up top-down feedforward
structure of attention module is used to unfold the feedforward
and feedback attention process into a single feedforward
process. The attention residual learning can not only improve
the network’s performance but is also robust against noisy
labels. Besides this, Hu et al. proposed Squeeze-and-Excitation
Networks which introduced a compact module to exploit the
inter channel relationship, so that their module is applicable
to almost all CNN architectures [16]. Their Squeeze-and-
Excitation module adaptively recalibrates channel-wise feature
responses by explicitly modelling interdependencies between
channels. Based on the work of Hu et al. [16], Woo et al.
came up with Convolutional Block Attention Module [12],
which is adopted in our purposed network. Instead of only
focusing on channel wise attention like Squeeze-and Exci-
tation module, Convolutional Block Attention Module also
focuses on spatial attention, which plays an important role
in information extraction. Roy et al. extended the work of Hu
et al. [16] by incorporating the effect of spatial information in
combination with feature-map (channel) information to make
it applicable to segmentation tasks [17]. Though attention
mechanisms have shown excellent performance in the ﬁeld of
image recognition, few researchers have integrated attention
mechanism into machine health monitoring. Our framework
introduced attention modules to improve the performance and
explainability of the model.
B. Explainable Machine Learning
The raid growth applications of machine learning, especially
deep learning models in high-stake decision areas such as
healthcare, ﬁnance and machinery health monitoring, raises
the requirements of understanding complex models. For deep
learning, there are two main categories of interpretable deep
learning techniques: perturbation-based methods and gradient-
based methods [18], [19]. Our adopted technique Grad-CAM

===== PAGE 2 =====
belongs to the latter one: gradient-based methods.
Perturbation-based Methods: To capture the attributions
of input features towards model predictions, the input data
are perturbed and fed into the model to monitor how the
model’s predictions change. Zintgraf et al. modiﬁed the input
image by moving a grey patch occluding part and visualized
the locations of patches that are responsible for the correct
predictions [20]. Most of these methods are not model-speciﬁc
techniques so that the same technique can be applied to any
kinds of machine learning models (not limited to deep learn-
ing models). Local interpretable model-agnostic explanations
(LIME) proposed by Ribeiro et al. was aimed at explaining
the predictions of any black-box classiﬁers based on the
assumption that complex black-box models may be linear and
simple locally [21]. The ﬁrst step of LIME is to generate a
new dataset containing permuted samples near the neighbor of
the original samples and the corresponding predictions of the
interested black-box models. Then, an intrinsic interpretable
model such as decision tree or lasso regression model is
trained over this new dataset. From the intrinsic interpretable
model, the feature importance of the interested sample could
be approximated. Except LIME, Scoped Rules (Anchors) and
SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) are other popular
model-agnostic methods [22], [23]. Although perturbation-
based methods have high ﬂexibility that are applicable to all
black-box models, their efﬁciency is limited especially when
the input data are in a high dimensionality space.
Gradient-based Methods: Gradient-based methods are fo-
cusing on computed gradients during backpropagation to
understand the information ﬂow through neural networks.
The gradients of errors with regards to each layer are used
to update the weights of corresponding layer to make the
predicted value closer to the ground truth. What is more,
the gradients of the error regrading to the input features are
related to the contributions for all input features: the larger
the gradient, the more informative of the corresponding input
features toward the speciﬁc output. The intuitive explanation
lies that those gradient values describe how each input feature
should change in order to make the model prediction closer
to the label. As a result, the core idea behind gradient-
based methods is that the magnitude of the gradients received
by each input feature with regard to a data point and its
label can be used as a proxy to measure the importance of
the underlying feature towards the identiﬁcation of the label
under consideration. However, these gradient values cannot
be directly used as understandable measures of the input
features. Different approaches corresponding to different post-
processing and transformations of these gradients are proposed
to turn them into meaningful attribution maps of the input
features, which is also called salience maps [13], [24]–[26].
In our framework, Grad-CAM is selected considering that
it is designed for CNN architectures and able to provide
explanation in a very efﬁcient way. In addition, our proposed
framework is related to one recent work that also combined
CNN and Grad-CAM to explain time series prediction [27]. In
the application of machine health monitoring, the DEFT-CNN
is built upon local feature extraction from time, frequency and
time-frequency domains specialized for vibration signals.
C. Explainable Machine Health Monitoring System
During the recent years, various state-of-the-art deep learn-
ing models have been applied in machine health monitoring.
Among these previous works, some research shares simi-
lar motivations with our works, i.e., exploring explainable
machine health monitoring systems. Kraus et al. proposed
a structured-effect neural network for remaining useful life
(RUL) prediction, where model parameters are estimated
by variational Bayesian inferences [28]. Compared to deep
learning, Bayesian neural network is able to have a posterior
inference that can capture uncertainty. Except Bayesian ma-
chine learning that is good at uncertainty modelling, it cannot
provide any explanations behind why the model makes such
decisions. In [29], Lee et al. proposed a framework consisting
of an autoencoder and a feedforward neural network to esti-
mate the remaining useful life (RUL) of rotating machinery
and the octave-band ﬁltering was adopted to compress the
sizes of the model and features to improve the explainability
level. However, in their proposed framework, the features are
limited to be power spectra of vibration signals due to the
utilization of the octave-band ﬁltering. John et al. adopted
Layer-wise Relevance Propagation to explain the behaviour
of CNN that takes time-frequency spectra images as inputs
[30]. Different from their study, our proposed work is more
ﬂexible that can utilize time domain, frequency domain and
time-frequency domain features.
III. DECOUPLED FEATURE-TEMPORAL CNN
In this section, our proposed DEFT-CNN is ﬁrstly presented.
The key characteristic of the proposed structure is that the
feature and temporal information are captured by different
convolutional layers. It leads to the independent application of
Grad-CAM on these two layers to estimate the contributions
from feature and time dynamics instead of a joint effect.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been one of
the most widely used deep learning models in the application
of machine health monitoring since they are able to ﬁnd those
hidden patterns in the input data. In the ﬁeld of computer
vision, there were previous works focusing on saliency maps
that highlighting the important region in the input image for
model prediction. However, it is challenging to utilize those
frameworks directly in machine health monitoring, considering
the input sensory data are time series data and most of them
have multiple variate at each time step. Even though the input
data are usually formed in a matrix, the two axes: feature
and temporal directions should be considered independently.
It motivates the development of the DEFT-CNN.
Similar to the work in [31], local feature extraction is
applied on the sensory input. As shown in Figure 2, the
original uni-variate time series data is transformed into a short
sequence of feature vectors that usually consists of features in
time, frequency and time-frequency domains. Then, the input
data of the following CNNs are in the shape of x ∈RT ×d.
Here, T and d denote the length of the sequence and the
number of features at each time step. Compared to the original
time series, the local feature sequence is much shorter and can
convey more discriminative information compared to the noisy
original signal [31].

===== PAGE 3 =====
As shown in the Figure 2, the DEFT-CNN learns abstract
representations from features and temporal directions, respec-
tively. The ﬁrst convolution layer utilizes a 2D ﬁlter whose
ﬁlter size is k×1. By setting the second dimension of the ﬁlter
size to 1, the convolution operation is able to capture each
feature independently. It enables the following gradient based
method to compute the attention value of each single feature
and generate the feature saliency map: F ∈RT ×d×C. Here, C
denotes the number of ﬁlters in the above convolution layer.
After the ﬁrst 2D convolution layer, a spatial attention module
is added, which was ﬁrstly proposed in the Convolutional
Block Attention Module [12]. This module consists of a global
maximum pooling layer, a global average pooling layer and a
2D convolution layer. The channel information of the feature
maps generated by the ﬁrst 2D convolution layer could be
aggregated by the global maximum pooling layer and the
average pooling layer, and two 2D maps will be generated:
Fs
avg ∈RT ×d×1 and Fs
max ∈RT ×d×1. Then, those feature
maps are concatenated as: Fs ∈RT ×d×2, and then fed into
the second 2D convolution layer. The second convolution layer
will produce a 2D spatial attention map. In short, the spatial
attention is computed as:
Ms(F) = σ (f([AvgPool(F); MaxPool(F)]))
= σ
 f
 
Fs
avg ; Fs
max

= σ (f (Fs))
(1)
where σ represents the sigmoid function which maps any
real value to a probability, f denotes a convolution operation
and [] is the concatenation operation. Then, the feature map
generated by the ﬁrst 2D convolution layer will be multiplied
by the spatial attention map. During multiplication, the spatial
attention values are up-sampled and amplify important and
discriminant features and temporal directions. This process can
be summarized as:
F′ = Mc(F) ⊗F
(2)
where ⊗represents element-wise multiplication and F′ de-
notes the ﬁnal output after spatial attention module. The adop-
tion of attention module can not only improve the classiﬁcation
accuracy by focusing on the informative features and time
points, but also enhance the explainability of the network by
strengthening the important features and temporal directions.
The attention module is followed by a 1 × 1 convolutional
layer which was ﬁrstly proposed in the inception architecture
[32]. By setting the number of ﬁlters to 1, the dimensionality
of feature map space could be reduced to 1 while the spatial
dimension space is kept unchanged. The beneﬁts are two-folds:
ﬁrst, the 1D convolutional layer could be applied on the output
of the 1×1 convolutional layer; second, the reduced model
complexity could overcome the potential overﬁtting problem.
The third convolutional layer is a 1D convolutional layer,
sliding the ﬁlter from the beginning of the time step to its end.
The ﬁlter will take all features in certain time steps and only
differentiate time steps. Therefore, by computing the gradient
ﬂow of this convolutional layer, the temporal saliency map
can be generated which could be used to explain which time
segments are important for model prediction. After ﬂatten, all
Fig. 1. Illustration of the local feature extractions.
generated feature maps are concatenated into a vector which
can be fed into fully connected layers and a softmax layer as
the top layers to predict targets.
The adopted gradient-based explainability technique here
is named gradient-weighted class activation mapping (Grad-
CAM) [13]. Grad-CAM utilizes the gradient ﬂow from out-
put neurons backpropagated into the convolutional layer to
understand model predictions. Firstly, the gradients of the
score for the predicted class yc with respect to all feature
maps generated by a certain convolutional layer are computed.
Here, c denotes the index of the predicted class while Ak
represents the k-th feature map generated by the corresponding
convolutional layer. Via global average-pooling operation over
the spatial dimension of the feature map, which can be
represented as, the importance score of the feature map for
the target class could be computed as follows:
ac
k = 1
Z
X
i
X
j
∂yc
∂Ak
ij
(3)
where
1
Z
P
i
P
jrepresents the global average operation, and
Z denotes the spatial dimension of the feature map. The
weight ac
k represents a partial linearization of the deep network
downstream from A, and captures the “importance” of feature
map k for a target class c.
Then, with the computed scores ac
k as weighting terms,
a weighted linear combination of feature maps Ak could be
computed and followed by the ReLU function as:
Lc = ReLU
 X
k
ac
kAk
!
(4)
The ReLU function is able to ﬁlter features that have negative
effects on the class of interest and render better visualization.
By checking the output matrix Lc, the values in the areas
of the input data are positively related to the contributions
toward the class of interest. Due to the decoupled structure
in our proposed framework as shown in Figure 2, the Grad-
CAM technique could be applied over the outputs of the
ﬁrst convolutional layer and the third 1D convolutional layer
regarding to the class of interest, respectively. Then, feature
saliency map and temporal saliency map could be generated
to help us understand which features and time segments are
most useful for model predictions. Therefore, our proposed
framework is able to achieve a good balance-off between
precision and explainability.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Fig. 2. Illustrations of the proposed DEFT-CNN. As shown in the ﬁgure, the numbers k, s and h are hyper-parameters for the ﬁrst 2D convolutional layer.
And the number k1, s1 and h1 are hyper-parameters for the third 1D convolutional layer.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
In this section, our proposed framework is validated on
a rolling element bearing diagnosis dataset provided by the
Paderborn University Bearing Data Center and a gearbox
diagnosis dataset provided by the Southeast University. The
Paderborn University Dataset [33] is a benchmark and standard
dataset for machinery fault diagnostic algorithms. The gearbox
dataset [34] was collected from Drivetrain Dynamic Simulator.
A. Dataset Description
1) Paderborn University Dataset:
Paderborn University
Dataset is a benchmark dataset for the purpose of bearing
fault diagnosis provided by the Chair of Design and Drive
Technology, Paderborn University. As shown in Figure 3, data
were collected from a modular test that is composed of an
electric motor, a torque-measurement shaft, a rolling bearing
test module, a ﬂywheel and a load motor. The motor (1) is
a 425 W Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor (PMSM)
with a nominal torque of T = 1.35 Nm, a nominal speed
of n = 3000 rpm, a nominal current of I = 2.3 A and a pole
pair number p = 4 (Type SD4CDu8S009, Hanning Elektro-
Werke GmbH & Co. KG). It is operated by a frequency
inverter (KEB Combivert 07F5E 1D-2B0A) with a switching
frequency of 16 kHz. The acceleration of the bearing housing
is measured at the adapter at the top end of the rolling
bearing module using a piezoelectric accelerometer (Model
No. 336C04, PCB Piezotronics, Inc.) and a charge ampliﬁer
(Type 5015A, Kistler Group) with a low-pass ﬁlter at 30 kHz.
The signal is digitalized and saved synchronously to the motor
current signals (MCS) with a sampling rate of 64 kHz.
The experiments were conducted on 6 healthy bearings and
26 damaged bearings. In the 26 damaged bearings, 12 are
Fig. 3.
Experiment rig of the Paderborn dataset. (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5)
denote an electric motor, a torque-measurement shaft, a rolling bearing test
module, a ﬂywheel and a load motor, respectively.
.
artiﬁcially damaged bearings and 14 are bearings with real
damages caused by accelerated lifetime tests. Fault types in
the damaged bearings includes 2 types: inner ring and outer
ring damages. In this paper, 2 undamaged bearings and 10
realistically damaged bearings are selected. All these bear-
ings were running under four different operating conditions
described in Table I. This paper only focuses on the operating
conditions A and B, where they will be studied, respectively.
The details of datasets can be seen in Table I and Table II.
Twenty measurements are conducted for each bearing ﬁle
which was collected under 64 kHz sampling rate and last for
4 seconds. Hence, the data ﬁle of each bearing has around
256 000 time steps. To handle the lengthy data ﬁles, we
used sliding window to extract a short sample and applied
overlapping to increase the number of samples. For each
measurement, we used window length of 5 120 and shifting
size of 4 096. Finally, we had 13 860 samples for each work
condition. Finally, we got four three-class datasets correspond-
ing to working condition A, B, C and D. The size of each
dataset is 13 860 and the length of each data sample is 5 120.

===== PAGE 5 =====
TABLE I
LIST OF WORKING CONDITION IN BEARING DATASET
Work Condition
Rotational Speed [rpm]
Load Torque [Nm]
Radial Force[N]
A
1500
0.7
1000
B
900
0.7
1000
C
1500
0.1
1000
D
1500
0.7
40
TABLE II
NUMBER OF BEARINGS SELECTED FROM THE DATASET
Normal Condition
Inner Ring Damage
Outer Ring Damage
K001
KI14
KA04
KI16
KA15
KI17
KA16
KI18
KA22
KI21
KA30
2) SEU Gearbox Dataset: SEU Gearbox Dataset is pro-
vided by the School of Instrument Science and Engineering,
Southeast University. The dataset was collected from the
Drivetrain Dynamic Simulator(DDS) shown in Figure 4, which
is composed of four units including the motor, the planetary
gearbox, the parallel gearbox and brake. Two different working
conditions are investigated with the rotating speed-system load
setting to be either 20 Hz-0 V or 30 Hz-2 V. And there are
four types of failure in this dataset, as shown in the Table III.
The accelerometer on planetary gearbox can obtain vibration
signals in X, Y and Z directions, which ﬁnally serve as the
input of our model. The signals were collected with 1024 Hz
sampling frequency and 512 s sampling window.
TABLE III
GEARBOX FAULT TYPE DESCRIPTION
Fault Type
Description
Chipped
Crack occurs in the gear feet
Miss
Missing one of the feet in the gear
Root
Crack occurs in the root of gear feet
Surface
Wear occurs in the surface of gear
B. Implementation Details
To preprocess the raw vibration sensory data, three kinds of
domain analysis including time, frequency and time-frequency
are conducted and each domain analysis contains three fea-
tures. The length of the original input time series is 5120
and is then, sliced into 20 windows. Each sub-window of
time series data whose length is 256 is transformed into a
vector of 9 features (i.e., three kinds of analysis with three
features). Therefore, each data sample is transformed into a
matrix whose shape is 20 by 9. Then, this matrix will be
used as the input into the following CNN model to predict the
fault type of a bearing. After random splitting, 80% dataset is
used as training data while the rest 20% dataset is regarded
as testing data.
Our proposed framework follows a “shallow” structure to
prevent overﬁtting, as shown in Figure 2. And the detailed
ﬂowchart of the proposed network is shown in Figure 5. In the
Fig. 4.
Schematic of the experimental setup for gearbox fault diagnosis
dataset.
TABLE IV
LIST OF EXTRACTED FEATURES
Domain
Features (symbols)
Time
rms (rms)
Peak-to-Peak (p2p)
Skewness (skew)
Frequency
Spectral Kurtosis (*kurt)
Spectral Skewness (*skw)
Spectral power (*pow)
Time-Frequency
db1 Wavelet Energy (db1)
db2 Wavelet Energy (db2)
db3 Wavelet Energy (db3)

===== PAGE 6 =====
Fig. 5. Detailed network architecture of DEFT-CNN.
ﬁrst convolutional layer, the ﬁlter size and stride size are set to
be l1 = (5, 1) and s1 = (1, 1). By setting the number in ﬁlter
size and stride size along the feature axis to 1, the activation
neuron in the generated feature map can be directly connected
to each single feature. This unique connection enables the
computed gradients could be used to explain the model de-
cision inﬂuenced by each single feature. This convolutional
layer contains 32 feature maps and adopts valid padding.
Then, we adopt a spatial attention module in our proposed
network. We generate a spatial attention map by utilizing the
inter-spatial relationship of features. This module contains an
average-pooling, a max-pooling layer and a 2D convolutional
layer. Pooling operation along the channel axis is effective in
highlighting informative regions for reducing dimensionality.
Then, after the 2D convolutional layer, we can generate a
(16, 9) spatial attention map, which can broadcast the attention
value to each feature and time segment after multiplication.
Then, we adopt the Network in Network technique and fed
the output of the ﬁrst convolutional layer focusing on feature
axis into the one by one convolutional layer with single ﬁlter.
The output of the one by one convolutional layer will be in
the shape of (16, 9). Then, the third convolutional layer will
be a one-dimensional convolutional layer whose kernel size is
l2 = 3, stride size is s2 = 1, number of feature maps is 32
and the mode of padding is valid. This layer is focused on
modelling the temporal information. After ﬂatten operation,
the output of the last convolutional layer is fed into a dense
layer whose hidden size is 64. For ﬁnal classiﬁcation, the last
layer is set to be a dense layer with softmax activation and
four output nodes corresponding to the number of classes. The
non-linear activation functions of all the convolutional layer
are set to be the ReLU function. To overcome overﬁtting, the
ﬁrst and third convolutional layers are followed by Dropout
layers whose dropout rate is 0.5.
The optimization algorithm of our proposed decoupled
frequency-temporal CNN is set to be adam with default
parameters while the number of epoch and the batch size are
set to be 20 and 256, respectively.
C. Experimental Results
In our experiment, classiﬁcation accuracy is adopted for
performance evaluation, which can be deﬁned as
Accuracy = Number of correctly classiﬁed samples
Total number of samples
(5)
After model training, the testing accuracy on the two
datasets and six different working conditions with all 9 features
is shown in Table V. Compared with the network that we
proposed in [14], the spatial attention layer is added. To
evaluate the effectiveness of the spatial attention module, we
compared the testing accuracy of DEFT-CNN with spatial
attention module with the accuracy of the original DEFT-
CNN as shown in Figure 6. In this ﬁgure, “A”, “B”, “C”, and
“D” on the horizontal axis represent four working conditions
in Paderborn University Bearing Dataset and “20Hz-0V”,
“30Hz-2V” represent two working conditions in SEU Gearbox
Dataset. From the results, we can observe that the spatial
attention module improves testing accuracy more than one
percent with a tiny increase of the model size as 11 more
parameters(from 30 052 to 30 063) for both datasets. In ad-
dition, we compared our method with benchmark methods on
the two datasets, including local feature-based gated recurrent
unit (LFGRU) [31], sparse ﬁltering [35] and two conventional
machine learning methods of support vector machine (SVM)
and k-nearest neighbors (KNN). As shown in Table V, our
proposed model is able to achieve a higher accuracy, out-
performing all the other methods in terms of classiﬁcation
accuracy. In the Parderborn University Dataset, compared with
conventional approaches of KNN and SVM, the improvements
of our proposed method are 9.97% and 5.45% respectively.
Furthermore, compared with deep learning method of sparse
ﬁltering and LFGRU, our proposed method improves 1.18%
and 3.89% on classiﬁcation accuracy. Similarly, the results
on SEU Gearbox Dataset further verify the superiority of our
proposed method.
In our proposed method, we applied local feature extraction
to convert raw vibration sensory data into short sequences
of feature vectors. Compared to the original time series, the
local feature sequence is much shorter and can convey more
discriminative information compared to the noisy original
signal. In order to verify the effectiveness of this method, we
designed the following experiment: inputting the raw vibration
signal instead of the feature vectors into our proposed DEFT-
CNN, and the ﬁnal result is shown in Figure 7. It can be
observed that the average classiﬁcation accuracy is greatly

===== PAGE 7 =====
TABLE V
THE CLASSIFICATION ACCURACY OF DIFFERENT MODELS
Method
Bearing Dataset
Gearbox Dataset
A
B
C
D
20Hz-0V
30Hz-2V
KNN
87.22%
86.28%
84.60%
88.62%
88.37%
88.24%
SVM
92.92%
92.82%
88.26%
90.71%
88.49%
87.61%
Sparse Filtering [35]
95.74%
97.32%
92.28%
96.58%
98.56%
98.29%
LFGRU [31]
92.80%
94.72%
90.26%
93.28%
94.23%
95.89%
DEFT-CNN
96.32%
96.28%
91.90%
97.27%
98.40%
98.12%
DEFT-CNN+Spatial Attention
97.51%
98.02%
94.01%
98.24%
99.61%
99.41%
Fig. 6.
Testing accuracy of DEFT-CNN and DEFT-CNN with Spatial
Attention Module on all datasets.
reduced from 96.92% to 86.90% when the original vibration
signal is used as the input. And the average training time
increased from 2.2 s to 122 s in the same environment using
raw vibration signal.
Spatial attention not only boosts the accuracy of baselines
signiﬁcantly but also improves the performance of feature
and temporal saliency map. Due to the decoupled structure
of the feature and temporal modeling in the convolutional
layers, the attributions from features and temporal directions
could be analyzed and formed in corresponding saliency maps.
The spatial attention module could increase the weights of
features and temporal directions which are more important.
From feature and temporal saliency maps, we are able to
understand what are important features and time steps of data
samples when predicting their fault types. In the generated
saliency maps, light color represents a high attention value
and dark color denotes a low attention value.
As shown in Figures 8, 9, and 10, three training data samples
from four classes of Paderborn University Bearing Dataset:
normal condition, inner ring damage and out ring damage
that have been correctly classiﬁed by our model are randomly
selected and then visualized. Grad-CAM are then applied on
the feature maps reﬁned by spatial attention module and the
third convolutional layer to generate feature and temporal
saliency maps. These ﬁgures are able to make predictions
more explainable. In Figure 8.b, the three frequency features
are redundant since they are shown in dark color. And from
Figure 8.c, time steps before 6 are almost non-informative
to the prediction of this data sample. In the Figure 9, it
could be analyzed on which part of features and time steps
have received more attention for its correct prediction as the
inner ring damage fault type. As shown in Figure 9.b, it is
easily shown that the model is very aggressive and leaves
all attention on two frequency features: spectral kurtosis and
spectral skewness to predict this data sample as the inner ring
damage condition. The ﬁgure 9.c shows that the time step 13
of the data sample contributes most to the model prediction.
Similar analysis could be done in Figure 10 corresponding to
the rest data sample from outer ring damage.
Similarly, the phenomenon that different classes possess
different important features is also present in SEU Gearbox
Dataset. We also randomly selected ﬁve sets of data from ﬁve
different classes for this dataset and used them to generate
feature saliency maps and temporal saliency maps as shown in
Figures 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15. It is interesting to note in Figure
11.b that for a healthy gear running in normal condition, the
time domain feature of Peak-to-Peak is much more important
than the other features. This is probably because the vibration
data of the healthy gear is much more stable than these of the
abnormal gears, resulting a different pattern of peak-to-peak
values for the healthy gear. Thus, the peak-to-peak feature can
be a good indicator for the normal class. From Figure 12.b,
we can observe that the features of Peak-to-Peak, Spectral
Skewness and db2 Wavelet Energy are redundant for this
sample with Chipped Damage. However, for the other samples
with Root Damage, Miss Damage and Surface Damage shown
in Figures 13, 14 and 15, Spectral Skewness and db2 Wavelet
Energy are of great importance, although the distributions of
the importance values of these features are distinct for samples
with different faults. In addition, it can be seen from temporal
saliency maps of these data samples that different data samples
have their own important time points, which will help to screen
out the important time points for further analysis. As discussed
above, the generated feature and temporal saliency maps allow
us to understand the impacts from features and time steps for
each prediction that the model makes and obtain insights into
why or how the model arrives at this outcome. With these
insights, we can further improve the underlying model.
In the following, the feature saliency maps will be con-
ducted over all training samples that are correctly classiﬁed.
For each training sample, the generated feature saliency map
contains the feature importance score across feature and time
axis, as shown in Figure 8.b, for each speciﬁc data sample.
To capture the global attention value for each feature, the
entries from all saliency maps are averaged along the data
axis and time axis. At last, nine values corresponding to nine

===== PAGE 8 =====
Fig. 7.
Testing accuracy using raw vibration signal and feature vectors on
bearing dataset.
Fig. 8. Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is correctly
diagnosed as Normal Condition in bearing dataset.
Fig. 9. Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is correctly
diagnosed as Inner Ring Damage in bearing dataset.
Fig. 10.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Outer Ring Damage in bearing dataset.
Fig. 11.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Normal Condition in gearbox dataset.
features could be computed in the range from zero to one.
These scores can be regarded as feature importance scores
for model predictions. As shown in Figure 16, two frequency
domain features: spectral skewness and kurtosis are the top-
2 important features. Those feature importance scores can be
used as indicators for feature selection.
To further validate the effectiveness of feature importance
scores, we select the feature subset ranked by importance
scores and re-train the model with the same hyper-parameter
conﬁgurations. As shown in Table VI, the average classiﬁca-
tion accuracies on Paderborn University Bearing Dataset and
SEU Gearbox Dataset were only dropped by 1.10% and 1.13%
respectively, when the number of features is reduced from 9 to
6. And even when only four features are selected, the average
classiﬁcation drop is still less than 1.5% on the two datasets.
Therefore, it also veriﬁes the effectiveness of the computation
of feature importance scores.

===== PAGE 9 =====
TABLE VI
THE CLASSIFICATION ACCURACY UNDER DIFFERENT FEATURES COMBINATIONS WITH DIFFERENT METHODS
Features Number
Feature Selection Method
Bearing Dataset
Gearbox Dataset
A
B
C
D
Average
20Hz-0V
30Hz-2V
Average
9
All Features
97.51%
98.02%
94.01%
98.24%
96.95%
99.61%
99.41%
99.51%
6
Important Score
95.74%
97.73%
92.09%
97.82%
95.85%
98.51%
98.24%
98.38%
6
Mutual Information
96.97%
95.42%
91.90%
97.20%
95.37%
96.78%
98.10%
97.44%
4
Important Score
95.41%
97.26%
91.42%
97.62%
95.42%
98.20%
98.02%
98.11%
4
Mutual Information
95.83%
92.09%
90.62%
96.87%
93.85%
98.20%
95.82%
97.01%
Fig. 12.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Chipped Damage in gearbox dataset.
Fig. 13.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Miss Damage in gearbox dataset.
Fig. 14.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Root Damage in gearbox dataset.
Fig. 15.
Features and temporal saliency maps for a data sample that is
correctly diagnosed as Surface Damage in gearbox dataset.

===== PAGE 10 =====
Fig. 16. Features importance over all true positive training samples.
Moreover, to rule out the possibility that random selection
of features could have the same effect, we have designed
another experiment to verify that the derived feature impor-
tance scores enable better feature selection. In the experiment,
we randomly choose 20 feature subset and then retrain the
model for 20 times in Paderborn University Bearing Dataset.
The results are shown in Figures 17, 18, 19 and 20. In
these ﬁgures, the red bar represents testing accuracy using
the feature subset selected by importance score, the blue bars
represent testing accuracy using the feature subsets randomly
selected and the green line denotes the average accuracy of
the random selections. In Figure 17, we retrained the model
in dataset under working condition A. By using 6 features
selected by importance score, the testing accuracy is 95.74%.
Meanwhile, the highest accuracy in the 20 experiments in
which 6 features are randomly selected to retrain the model is
95.53%. And the average testing accuracy is 76.68%, which
is much lower than 95.74%. Similarly, Figure 18 shows the
difference between selecting 4 features using important score
and selecting 4 features at random in working condition A.
In Figures 19 and 20, the results of repeating the above two
experiments in working environment B are presented. The
detailed data of these experiments are recorded in table VII.
We can observe that the accuracy using the feature subset
selected by importance score is always the highest in the
two working conditions and is much higher than the average
accuracy. Experiments with randomly selected features may
not rule out chance to some extent. So to further verify the
effectiveness of our selection based on importance score, we
applied mutual information [36] for feature selection. Mutual
information measures arbitrary dependencies between random
variables. It is suitable for assessing the “information content”
of features in complex classiﬁcation tasks. Using mutual
information, we perform feature selection for each working
condition of each dataset and the ﬁnal result is shown in Table
VI. It is clear that the method with the features selected by
importance score outperforms that with the features selected
by mutual information. The features selected by importance
score can improve the average accuracy by 0.48% and 1.57%
under the scenarios of 6 and 4 features respectively on the
bearing dataset. For the gearbox dataset, the improvements on
accuracy are 0.94% and 1.1% under the scenarios of 6 and 4
features respectively.In summary, the feature selection method
using important score has a better performance than mutual
information-based feature selection. Thus, the effectiveness of
the computation of feature importance score is further veriﬁed.
Fig. 17. Comparison of feature selection using importance score and random
feature selection (6 features, working condition A).
Fig. 18. Comparison of feature selection using importance score and random
feature selection (4 features, working condition A).
V. CONCLUSION
This paper has illustrated the lack of explainability which
hinders the application of deep learning models on machine
health monitoring. To crack open black-box models, a Decou-
pled Feature-Temporal CNN (DEFT-CNN) method combined
with local feature extraction and attention mechanism was
proposed. This speciﬁc structure enables the introduction of
Grad-CAM to generate saliency maps explaining feature and
temporal information. Experimental results veriﬁed the posi-
tive effect of attention module on network performance and
indicated a good balance between precision and explainability.
It also highlights that the model structure and feature selection
can be further optimized and improved based on the gained

===== PAGE 11 =====
TABLE VII
THE RESULTS OF SELECTION USING IMPORTANCE SCORE AND RANDOM SELECTION
Condition
Accuracy
Highest Accuracy
Average Accuracy
(Importance Score)
(Random)
(Random)
6 features
95.74%
95.53%
76.68%
working Condition A
4 features
95.41%
94.67%
75.56%
working Condition A
6 features
97.73%
96.97%
82.79%
working Condition B
4 features
97.26%
96.97%
82.70%
working Condition B
Fig. 19. Comparison of feature selection using importance score and random
feature selection (6 features, working condition B).
Fig. 20. Comparison of feature selection using importance score and random
feature selection (4 features, working condition B).
insights. In the future, more experimental studies should be
conducted to explore the potential edge cases. Except that,
several limitations of our present framework are given as
below: 1) this framework can only provide local explanation
(i.e., why do you think this sample is diagnosed as normal one)
instead of global one (i.e., what do you think a normal working
condition sample looks like). 2) Local feature extraction is
performed before DEFT-CNN. Therefore, explanations are
limitations to the extracted features and sliced time windows.
The above shortcomings point out our future research di-
rections. From this paper, we hope this research direction:
explainable machine health monitoring should receive more
attentions from our research community.
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Lei, B. Yang, X. Jiang, F. Jia, N. Li, and A. K. Nandi, “Applications
of machine learning to machine fault diagnosis: A review and roadmap,”
Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 138, p. 106587, 2020.
[2] R. Zhao, R. Yan, Z. Chen, K. Mao, P. Wang, and R. X. Gao, “Deep
learning and its applications to machine health monitoring,” Mechanical
Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 115, pp. 213–237, 2019.
[3] R. X. Gao, L. Wang, M. Helu, and R. Teti, “Big data analytics for smart
factories of the future,” CIRP Annals, 2020.
[4] R. Liu, B. Yang, E. Zio, and X. Chen, “Artiﬁcial intelligence for fault
diagnosis of rotating machinery: A review,” Mechanical Systems and
Signal Processing, vol. 108, pp. 33–47, 2018.
[5] G. Helbing and M. Ritter, “Deep learning for fault detection in wind
turbines,” Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol. 98, pp. 189–
198, 2018.
[6] D. Xiao, Y. Huang, C. Qin, H. Shi, and Y. Li, “Fault diagnosis of
induction motors using recurrence quantiﬁcation analysis and lstm with
weighted bn,” Shock and Vibration, vol. 2019, 2019.
[7] G. Terrazas, G. Mart´ınez-Arellano, P. Benardos, and S. Ratchev, “Online
tool wear classiﬁcation during dry machining using real time cutting
force measurements and a cnn approach,” Journal of Manufacturing
and Materials Processing, vol. 2, no. 4, p. 72, 2018.
[8] Z. Chen, M. Wu, R. Zhao, F. Guretno, R. Yan, and X. Li, “Machine
remaining useful life prediction via an attention based deep learning
approach,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, pp. 1–1, 2020.
[9] X. Li, W. Zhang, and Q. Ding, “Deep learning-based remaining useful
life estimation of bearings using multi-scale feature extraction,” Relia-
bility Engineering & System Safety, vol. 182, pp. 208–218, 2019.
[10] J. Gertler, Fault detection and diagnosis in engineering systems.
CRC
press, 1998.
[11] R. Yan, R. Zhao, and R. X. Gao, “Noise-assisted data processing in
measurement science: part one part 40 in a series of tutorials on in-
strumentation and measurement,” IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement
Magazine, vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 41–44, 2012.
[12] S. Woo, J. Park, J.-Y. Lee, and I. S. Kweon, “Cbam: Convolutional
block attention module,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on
Computer Vision (ECCV), September 2018.
[13] R. R. Selvaraju, M. Cogswell, A. Das, R. Vedantam, D. Parikh, and
D. Batra, “Grad-cam: Visual explanations from deep networks via
gradient-based localization,” in Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision, 2017, pp. 618–626.
[14] R. Zhao, Z. Chen, C. Zhu, Z. Chan, J. Wang, and R. Yan, “Decoupled
feature-temporal cnn: Explaining deep learning-based machine health
monitoring,” in 2020 International Conference on Sensing, Measurement
Data Analytics in the era of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (ICSMD), 2020, pp.
280–285.
[15] F. Wang, M. Jiang, C. Qian, S. Yang, C. Li, H. Zhang, X. Wang,
and X. Tang, “Residual attention network for image classiﬁcation,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, 2017, pp. 3156–3164.
[16] J. Hu, L. Shen, S. Albanie, G. Sun, and E. Wu, “Squeeze-and-excitation
networks,” 2019.

===== PAGE 12 =====
[17] A. G. Roy, N. Navab, and C. Wachinger, “Concurrent spatial and
channel ‘squeeze & excitation’in fully convolutional networks,” in
International conference on medical image computing and computer-
assisted intervention.
Springer, 2018, pp. 421–429.
[18] M. Ancona, E. Ceolini, C. ¨Oztireli, and M. Gross, “Towards better
understanding of gradient-based attribution methods for deep neural
networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.06104, 2017.
[19] C. Molnar, Interpretable Machine Learning.
Lulu. com, 2020.
[20] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus, “Visualizing and understanding convolu-
tional networks,” in European conference on computer vision. Springer,
2014, pp. 818–833.
[21] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, “” why should i trust you?”
explaining the predictions of any classiﬁer,” in Proceedings of the 22nd
ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and
data mining, 2016, pp. 1135–1144.
[22] ——, “Anchors: High-precision model-agnostic explanations,” in AAAI,
2018.
[23] S. M. Lundberg and S.-I. Lee, “A uniﬁed approach to interpreting model
predictions,” in Advances in neural information processing systems,
2017, pp. 4765–4774.
[24] J. Adebayo, J. Gilmer, M. Muelly, I. Goodfellow, M. Hardt, and B. Kim,
“Sanity checks for saliency maps,” in Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2018, pp. 9505–9515.
[25] A. Shrikumar, P. Greenside, and A. Kundaje, “Learning important
features through propagating activation differences,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1704.02685, 2017.
[26] S. Bach, A. Binder, G. Montavon, F. Klauschen, K.-R. M¨uller, and
W. Samek, “On pixel-wise explanations for non-linear classiﬁer deci-
sions by layer-wise relevance propagation,” PloS one, vol. 10, no. 7, p.
e0130140, 2015.
[27] R. Assaf and A. Schumann, “Explainable deep neural networks for
multivariate time series predictions.” in IJCAI, 2019, pp. 6488–6490.
[28] M. Kraus and S. Feuerriegel, “Forecasting remaining useful life: In-
terpretable deep learning approach via variational bayesian inferences,”
Decision Support Systems, vol. 125, p. 113100, 2019.
[29] N. Lee, M. H. Azarian, and M. G. Pecht, “An explainable deep
learning-based prognostic model for rotating machinery,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.13608, 2020.
[30] J. Grezmak, P. Wang, C. Sun, and R. X. Gao, “Explainable convolutional
neural network for gearbox fault diagnosis,” Procedia CIRP, vol. 80, pp.
476–481, 2019.
[31] R. Zhao, D. Wang, R. Yan, K. Mao, F. Shen, and J. Wang, “Machine
health monitoring using local feature-based gated recurrent unit net-
works,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, no. 2, pp.
1539–1548, 2017.
[32] M. Lin, Q. Chen, and S. Yan, “Network in network,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.4400, 2013.
[33] C. Lessmeier, J. K. Kimotho, D. Zimmer, and W. Sextro, “Condition
monitoring of bearing damage in electromechanical drive systems by
using motor current signals of electric motors: A benchmark data set for
data-driven classiﬁcation,” in Proceedings of the European conference
of the prognostics and health management society, 2016, pp. 05–08.
[34] S. Shao, S. McAleer, R. Yan, and P. Baldi, “Highly accurate machine
fault diagnosis using deep transfer learning,” IEEE Transactions on
Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 2446–2455, 2019.
[35] Y. Lei, F. Jia, J. Lin, S. Xing, and S. X. Ding, “An intelligent fault di-
agnosis method using unsupervised feature learning towards mechanical
big data,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 63, no. 5,
pp. 3137–3147, 2016.
[36] R. Battiti, “Using mutual information for selecting features in supervised
neural net learning,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol. 5,
no. 4, pp. 537–550, 1994.
